# بعد_از_اتمام_تحصیل

◀️ کلیات:

It is relatively easy for graduates of German universities to gain a residence permit in order to work in Germany. More than 40 percent of international graduates remain in Germany for some time after completing their degree. They must however meet certain requirements.

◀️ چقدر وقت داریم دنبال شغل بگردیم؟

Graduates of non-Europian countries may extend their residence permit by up to 18 months after graduation in order to find a suitable job. The 18 months start "as soon as you receive your last exam result".

◀️ شرایط شغل چی باید باشن؟

You must demonstrate that your living costs are covered for this period and that "you are seeking work that corresponds to your qualifications". That means you cannot be looking for a job as a waiter or courier that anyone could do with no specific training. If you succeed in finding a job during this period, you can stay in Germany and receive a residence permit for the purpose of gainful employment. 

To gain this residence permit (which is mostly a blue card) a proof of a minimum annual gross salary of 52,000 Euro is necessary. Exception: A lower salary threshold of "40,560 Euro" (or a bit lower) is applied for EU Blue Cards issued to scientists, mathematicians and engineers, as well as to doctors and IT specialists.

◀️ کی میشه اقامت دائم گرفت؟

Holders of an EU Blue Card are to be issued with an unlimited settlement permit if:

✅ they have held their employment as a highly-qualified person for more than 33 months

✅ they can demonstrate that they have made obligatory contributions in this period or show other proof of expenditure to obtain an entitlement to insurance benefits which are comparable to those from statutory pensions insurance, and

✅ the other prerequisites generally necessary for issuing a settlement permit are met.

✅ If the holder of the EU Blue Card has an adequate knowledge of German (level B1), the settlement permit is issued earlier, namely after 21 months.

◀️ کی میشه برای شهروندی اقدام کرد؟

If you meet all requirements (including a good command of German), you may apply for citizenship after eight years. Most federal states include your time spent studying in Germany in these eight years.

◀️ نکات مفید برای دنبال شغل گشتن:
 
1. Many graduates only search for jobs that precisely match what they studied for their degree. It is better to also consider related areas. If you read job advertisements carefully, you will find that employers frequently want staff with particular skills, not with a particular degree.

2. Small and medium-sized companies are very important to the German economy. There are around 2.5 million of them, and they provide more than 60 percent of all jobs in Germany. So not limiting your job search to large international companies will increase your chances.

3. There is a shortage of highly qualified workers in Germany. According to the Cologne Institute for Economic Research, specialist staff are sought especially in the STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) professions. So it's easier to find vacancies in these industries.

◀️ چقدر شانس داریم؟

Finding the right job often takes time and effort. However, thanks to the economic situation in Germany graduates seeking work have good prospects. More information and current figures can be found in:

http://www.bmas.de/DE/Themen/Arbeitsmarkt/Fachkraeftesicherung/fachkraeftesicherung.html

@septm