http://grad.saorg.ir/دانش-آموختگان-خارج/سطح-بندی-دانشگاه-های-خارج-از-کشور/سطحبندی-دانشگاههای-بعد-از-2018/کانادا-2018

# سطح‌بندی دانشگاه‌های بعد از 2018

## گروه الف (ممتاز)

1. Dalhousie University

2. Laval University

3. Montréal School of Higher Commercial Studies (HEC Montréal)

4. McGill University

5. McMaster University

6. Queen's University

7. Simon Fraser University

8. Université de Montreal

9. Universitié de Montreal Ecole Polytechnic

10. University of Alberta

11. University of British Columbia

12. University of Calgary

13. University of Ottawa 

14. University of Toronto

15. University of Victoria 

16. University of Waterloo

## گروه ب (خوب)

1. Carleton University

2. Concordia University      

3. Ecole de Technologie Supérieure, University of Quebec

1. Ryerson University

4. The University of Western Ontario      

5. Université du Québec à Montréal

6. University of Northern British Colombia

7. Université du Québec à Québec 

8. University of Guelph                   

9. University of Manitoba   

10. University of Saskatchewan

11. York University

12. University of New Brunswick

13. university of Regina

14. Memorial University of Newfoundland

15. National Institute Scientific Research, University of Quebec

16. University of Windsor
## گروه ج (متوسط)

1. Acadia University

2. Augustana University College

3. Bishops University

4. Brandon University

5. Brock University

6. Cape Breton University (CBU)

7. Lakehead University

8. Laurentian University

9. Mount Allison University

10. Mount Saint Vincent University

11. National School of Public Administration, University of Quebec

12. Nipissing University

13. Nova Scotia Agricultural College

14. Universite Saint – Anne

15. Saint Paul University

16. Saint Marys University

17. St. Francis Xavier University

18. The Kings University College

19. The University of Lethbridge

20. The University of St. Jeromes College

21. The University of Winnipeg

22. Trent University

23. Trinity Western  University

24. Universite de Moncton

25. University of Prince Edward Island

26. University of Ontario Institute of Technology

27. University of Quebec at Chicoutimi

28. University of Quebec at Hull

29. University of Quebec at Rimouski

30. University of Quebec at Trosi – Rivieres

31. University of Quebec, Abitibi – Temiscamingue

32. University of Sherbrooke

33. University of St. Michaels College

34. University of Sudbury

35. University of Trinity College

36. University College of Saint – Boniface
Wilfrid Laurier University